reference/core/crds.md, before:

# Ambassador Edge Stack Configuration with Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs)

Any Ambassador Edge Stack resource can be expressed as a CRD in the `getambassador.io` API group:

- use `apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2`
- use the same `kind` as you would in an attribute
- put the resource name in `metadata.name`
- put everything else in `spec`

As an example, you could use the following CRDs for a very simple Lua test:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind: Module
metadata:
  name: ambassador
  namespace: default
spec:
  config:
    lua_scripts: |
      function envoy_on_response(response_handle)
        response_handle: headers():add("Lua-Scripts-Enabled", "Processed")
      end
---
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind: Mapping
metadata:
  name: lua-target-mapping
  namespace: default
spec:
  prefix: /target/
  service: luatest-http
```

Note that the `namespace` must be declared in the `metadata`, but if needed, `ambassador_id` must be declared in the `spec`.

You can run `kubectl get ambassador-crds` to see the CRDs you've created to configure the Ambassador Edge Stack.

## Supported CRDs

The full set of CRDs supported by the Ambassador Edge Stack are the following:

| `Kind` | Kubernetes singular | Kubernetes plural |
| :----- | :------------------ | :---------------- |
| [`AuthService`](/reference/services/auth-service) | `authservice` | `authservices` |
| [`ConsulResolver`](/reference/core/resolvers/#the-consul-resolver) | `consulresolver` | `consulresolvers` |
| [`Filter`](/reference/filter-reference/) | `filter` | `filters` |
| [`FilterPolicy`](/reference/services/access-control) | `filterpolicy` | `filterpolicies`|
| [`Host`](/reference/host-crd/) | `host`| `hosts` |
| [`Ingress`](/reference/core/ingress-controller/) | `ingress` | `ingresses` |
| [`KubernetesEndpointResolver`](/reference/core/resolvers/#the-kubernetes-endpoint-resolver) | `kubernetesendpointresolver` | `kubernetesendpointresolvers` |
| [`KubernetesServiceResolver`](/reference/core/resolvers/#the-kubernetes-service-resolver) | `kubernetesserviceresolver` | `kubernetesserviceresolvers` |
| [`LogService`](/reference/services/log-service) | `logservice` | `logservices` |
| [`Mapping`](/reference/mappings/) | `mapping` | `mappings` |
| [`Module`](/reference/modules/#module-configuration) | `module` | `modules` |
| [`RateLimit`](/user-guide/advanced-rate-limiting/) | `ratelimit` | `ratelimits` |
| [`RateLimitService`](/reference/services/rate-limit-service) | `ratelimitservice` | `ratelimitservices` |
| [`TCPMapping`](/reference/tcpmappings/#tcpmapping) | `tcpmapping` | `tcpmappings` |
| [`TLSContext`](/reference/core/tls/#tlscontext) | `tlscontext` | `tlscontexts` |
| [`TracingService`](/reference/services/tracing-service) | `tracingservice` | `tracingservices` |

So, for example, if you're using CRDs, then `kubectl get mappings` should show all your `Mapping` custom resources.

## CRDs and RBAC

You will need to grant your Kubernetes service appropriate RBAC permissions to use CRDs. The default Ambassador Edge Stack RBAC examples have been updated, but the appropriate rules are

```yaml
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: [ "endpoints", "namespaces", "services" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [ "getambassador.io" ]
  resources: [ "*" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch", "update", "patch", "create", "delete" ]
- apiGroups: [ "apiextensions.k8s.io" ]
  resources: [ "customresourcedefinitions" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [ "networking.internal.knative.dev" ]
  resources: [ "clusteringresses", "ingresses" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [ "networking.internal.knative.dev" ]
  resources: [ "ingresses/status", "clusteringresses/status" ]
  verbs: ["update"]
- apiGroups: [ "extensions" ]
  resources: [ "ingresses" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [ "extensions" ]
  resources: [ "ingresses/status" ]
  verbs: ["update"]
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: [ "secrets" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch", "create", "update"]
```

## Annotations

The Ambassador Edge Stack uses informational annotations on getambassador.io custom resources to tag, trace, and export all changes applied to resources configured via the Edge Policy Console.

Namely, these annotations are:

- getambassador.io/resource-editable
- getambassador.io/resource-changed
- getambassador.io/resource-source
- getambassador.io/resource-downloaded

None of these annotations influence the expected behavior of resources. They are purely informative. You may choose to ignore them or discard them if you describe any of your configured resources.

## Creating the CRD Types Within Kubernetes

Before using the CRD types, you must add them to the Kubernetes API server. This is most easily done by applying [`aes-crds.yaml`](../../../yaml/aes-crds.yaml).

Commit message:

corrected CRDs/resources to indicate whether or not they are AES specific

reference/core/crds.md, after:

# Ambassador Edge Stack Configuration with Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs)

Any Ambassador Edge Stack resource can be expressed as a CRD in the `getambassador.io` API group:

- use `apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2`
- use the same `kind` as you would in an attribute
- put the resource name in `metadata.name`
- put everything else in `spec`

As an example, you could use the following CRDs for a very simple Lua test:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind: Module
metadata:
  name: ambassador
  namespace: default
spec:
  config:
    lua_scripts: |
      function envoy_on_response(response_handle)
        response_handle: headers():add("Lua-Scripts-Enabled", "Processed")
      end
---
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind: Mapping
metadata:
  name: lua-target-mapping
  namespace: default
spec:
  prefix: /target/
  service: luatest-http
```

Note that the `namespace` must be declared in the `metadata`, but if needed, `ambassador_id` must be declared in the `spec`.

You can run `kubectl get ambassador-crds` to see the CRDs you've created to configure the Ambassador Edge Stack.

## Supported CRDs

The full set of CRDs supported by the Ambassador API Gateway and the Ambassador Edge Stack are the following:

| `Kind` | Kubernetes singular | Kubernetes plural |
| :----- | :------------------ | :---------------- |
| [`AuthService`](/reference/services/auth-service) | `authservice` | `authservices` |
| [`ConsulResolver`](/reference/core/resolvers/#the-consul-resolver) | `consulresolver` | `consulresolvers` |
| [`Host`](/reference/host-crd/) | `host`| `hosts` |
| [`Ingress`](/reference/core/ingress-controller/) | `ingress` | `ingresses` |
| [`KubernetesEndpointResolver`](/reference/core/resolvers/#the-kubernetes-endpoint-resolver) | `kubernetesendpointresolver` | `kubernetesendpointresolvers` |
| [`KubernetesServiceResolver`](/reference/core/resolvers/#the-kubernetes-service-resolver) | `kubernetesserviceresolver` | `kubernetesserviceresolvers` |
| [`LogService`](/reference/services/log-service) | `logservice` | `logservices` |
| [`Mapping`](/reference/mappings/) | `mapping` | `mappings` |
| [`Module`](/reference/modules/#module-configuration) | `module` | `modules` |
| [`RateLimitService`](/reference/services/rate-limit-service) | `ratelimitservice` | `ratelimitservices` |
| [`TCPMapping`](/reference/tcpmappings/#tcpmapping) | `tcpmapping` | `tcpmappings` |
| [`TLSContext`](/reference/core/tls/#tlscontext) | `tlscontext` | `tlscontexts` |
| [`TracingService`](/reference/services/tracing-service) | `tracingservice` | `tracingservices` |

So, for example, if you're using CRDs, then `kubectl get mappings` should show all your `Mapping` custom resources.

### CRDs Specific to the Ambassador Edge Stack

The following CRDs are specific to only the Ambassador Edge Stack and are
subject to the community license agreements:

| `Kind` | Kubernetes singular | Kubernetes plural |
| :----- | :------------------ | :---------------- |
| [`Filter`](/reference/filter-reference/) | `filter` | `filters` |
| [`FilterPolicy`](/reference/services/access-control) | `filterpolicy` | `filterpolicies`|
| [`RateLimit`](/user-guide/advanced-rate-limiting/) | `ratelimit` | `ratelimits` |

## CRDs and RBAC

You will need to grant your Kubernetes service appropriate RBAC permissions to use CRDs. The default Ambassador Edge Stack RBAC examples have been updated, but the appropriate rules are

```yaml
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: [ "endpoints", "namespaces", "services" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [ "getambassador.io" ]
  resources: [ "*" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch", "update", "patch", "create", "delete" ]
- apiGroups: [ "apiextensions.k8s.io" ]
  resources: [ "customresourcedefinitions" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [ "networking.internal.knative.dev" ]
  resources: [ "clusteringresses", "ingresses" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [ "networking.internal.knative.dev" ]
  resources: [ "ingresses/status", "clusteringresses/status" ]
  verbs: ["update"]
- apiGroups: [ "extensions" ]
  resources: [ "ingresses" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [ "extensions" ]
  resources: [ "ingresses/status" ]
  verbs: ["update"]
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: [ "secrets" ]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch", "create", "update"]
```

## Annotations

The Ambassador Edge Stack uses informational annotations on getambassador.io custom resources to tag, trace, and export all changes applied to resources configured via the Edge Policy Console.

Namely, these annotations are:

- getambassador.io/resource-editable
- getambassador.io/resource-changed
- getambassador.io/resource-source
- getambassador.io/resource-downloaded

None of these annotations influence the expected behavior of resources. They are purely informative. You may choose to ignore them or discard them if you describe any of your configured resources.

## Creating the CRD Types Within Kubernetes

Before using the CRD types, you must add them to the Kubernetes API server. This is most easily done by applying [`aes-crds.yaml`](../../../yaml/aes-crds.yaml).
