docs/topics/running/services/tracing-service.md, before:

# TracingService Plugin

Applications that consist of multiple services can be difficult to debug, as a single request can span multiple services. Distributed tracing tells the story of your request as it is processed through your system. Distributed tracing is a powerful tool to debug and analyze your system in addition to request logging and metrics.

## The TracingService

When enabled, the `TracingService` will instruct Ambassador Edge Stack to initiate a trace on requests by generating and populating an `x-request-id` HTTP header. Services can make use of this `x-request-id` header in logging and forward it in downstream requests for tracing. Ambassador Edge Stack also integrates with external trace visualization services, including [LightStep](https://lightstep.com/) and Zipkin-compatible APIs such as [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) and [Jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/) to allow you to store and visualize traces. You can read further on [Envoy's Tracing capabilities](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.10.0/intro/arch_overview/tracing).

A `TracingService` manifest configures Ambassador Edge Stack to use an external trace visualization service:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind:  TracingService
metadata:
  name:  tracing
spec:
  service: "example-zipkin:9411"
  driver: zipkin
  config: {}
  tag_headers:
  - ":authority"
  - ":path"
```

- `service` gives the URL of the external HTTP trace service.
- `driver` provides the driver information that handles communicating with the `service`. Supported values are `lightstep`, `zipkin`, and `datadog`.
- `config` provides additional configuration options for the selected `driver`.
- `tag_headers` (optional) if present, specifies a list of other HTTP request headers which will be used as tags in the trace's span.

Please note that you must use the HTTP/2 pseudo-header names. For example:

- the `host` header should be specified as the `:authority` header; and
- the `method` header should be specified as the `:method` header.

### `lightstep` Driver Configurations

- `access_token_file` provides the location of the file containing the access token to the LightStep API.

### `zipkin` Driver Configurations

- `collector_endpoint` gives the API endpoint of the Zipkin service where the spans will be sent. The default value is `/api/v1/spans`
- `trace_id_128bit` whether a 128-bit `trace id` will be used when creating a new trace instance. Defaults to `true`. Setting to `false` will result in a 64-bit trace id being used.
- `shared_span_context` whether client and server spans will share the same `span id`. The default value is `true`.

### `datadog` Driver Configurations

- `service_name` the name of the service which is attached to the traces. The default value is `ambassador`.

You may only use a single `TracingService` manifest per Ambassador deployment. Ensure [ambassador_id](../../running#ambassador_id) is set correctly in the `TracingService` manifest.

## Example

Check out the [DataDog](../../../../howtos/tracing-datadog) and [Zipkin](../../../../howtos/tracing-zipkin) HOWTOs.

Commit message:

(from AES) Implement sampling percentage in tracing service
Implement the `client_sampling`, `random_sampling` and `overall_sampling` options
in the `extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.Tracing`
config in the TracingService so that the user can set them as needed.

Signed-off-by: Alvaro Saurin <alvaro.saurin@gmail.com>

docs/topics/running/services/tracing-service.md, after:

# TracingService Plugin

Applications that consist of multiple services can be difficult to debug, as a single request can span multiple services. Distributed tracing tells the story of your request as it is processed through your system. Distributed tracing is a powerful tool to debug and analyze your system in addition to request logging and metrics.

## The TracingService

When enabled, the `TracingService` will instruct Ambassador Edge Stack to initiate a trace on requests by generating and populating an `x-request-id` HTTP header. Services can make use of this `x-request-id` header in logging and forward it in downstream requests for tracing. Ambassador Edge Stack also integrates with external trace visualization services, including [LightStep](https://lightstep.com/) and Zipkin-compatible APIs such as [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) and [Jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/) to allow you to store and visualize traces. You can read further on [Envoy's Tracing capabilities](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.10.0/intro/arch_overview/tracing).

A `TracingService` manifest configures Ambassador Edge Stack to use an external trace visualization service:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind:  TracingService
metadata:
  name:  tracing
spec:
  service: "example-zipkin:9411"
  driver: zipkin
  config: {}
  tag_headers:
  - ":authority"
  - ":path"
  sampling:
    overall: 100
```

- `service` gives the URL of the external HTTP trace service.
- `driver` provides the driver information that handles communicating with the `service`. Supported values are `lightstep`, `zipkin`, and `datadog`.
- `config` provides additional configuration options for the selected `driver`.
- `tag_headers` (optional) if present, specifies a list of other HTTP request headers which will be used as tags in the trace's span.
- `sampling` (optional) if present, specifies some target percentages of requests that will be traced.
  - `client`: percentage of requests that will be force traced if the `x-client-trace-id` header is set. Defaults to 100.
  - `random`: percentage of requests that will be randomly traced. Defaults to 100.
  - `overall`: percentage of requests that will be traced after all other checks have been applied (force tracing, sampling, etc.).
  This field functions as an upper limit on the total configured sampling rate. For instance, setting `client`
  to `100%` but `overall` to `1%` will result in only `1%` of client requests with the appropriate headers to be force
  traced. Defaults to 100.
    

Please note that you must use the HTTP/2 pseudo-header names. For example:

- the `host` header should be specified as the `:authority` header; and
- the `method` header should be specified as the `:method` header.

### `lightstep` Driver Configurations

- `access_token_file` provides the location of the file containing the access token to the LightStep API.

### `zipkin` Driver Configurations

- `collector_endpoint` gives the API endpoint of the Zipkin service where the spans will be sent. The default value is `/api/v1/spans`
- `trace_id_128bit` whether a 128-bit `trace id` will be used when creating a new trace instance. Defaults to `true`. Setting to `false` will result in a 64-bit trace id being used.
- `shared_span_context` whether client and server spans will share the same `span id`. The default value is `true`.

### `datadog` Driver Configurations

- `service_name` the name of the service which is attached to the traces. The default value is `ambassador`.

You may only use a single `TracingService` manifest per Ambassador deployment. Ensure [ambassador_id](../../running#ambassador_id) is set correctly in the `TracingService` manifest.

## Example

Check out the [DataDog](../../../../howtos/tracing-datadog) and [Zipkin](../../../../howtos/tracing-zipkin) HOWTOs.
