# Monitoring Ingress with Prometheus and Grafana

Prometheus is an open-source monitoring and alerting system.  When used
along with Grafana, you can create a dynamic dashboard for monitoring
ingress into our Kubernetes cluster.

## Deployment

This guide will focus on deploying Prometheus and Grafana alongside
Ambassador Edge Stack in Kubernetes using the [Prometheus
Operator](https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator).

**Note:** Both Prometheus and Grafana can be deployed as standalone
applications outside of Kubernetes.  This process is well-documented
within the website and docs within their respective projects.

### Ambassador Edge Stack

Ambassador Edge Stack makes it easy to output Envoy-generated
statistics to Prometheus.  For the remainder of this guide, it is
assumed that you have installed and configured Ambassador Edge Stack
into your Kubernetes cluster, and that it is possible for you to
modify the global configuration of the Ambassador Edge Stack
deployment.

Starting with Ambassador `0.71.0`, Prometheus can scrape stats/metrics
directly from Envoy's `/metrics` endpoint, removing the need to
[configure Ambassador Edge Stack to output stats to
StatsD](#statsd-exporter-output-statistics-to-ambassador-edge-stack).

The `/metrics` endpoint can be accessed internally via the Ambassador
Edge Stack admin port (default 8877):

```
http(s)://ambassador:8877/metrics
```

or externally by creating a `Mapping` similar to below:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind: Mapping
metadata:
  name: metrics
spec:
  prefix: /metrics
  rewrite: ""
  service: localhost:8877
```

**Note**: Since `/metrics` in an endpoint on Ambassador Edge Stack
itself, the `service` field can just reference the admin port on
localhost.

### Using the `cluster_tag` Setting

The metrics that Prometheus scrapes from Ambassador are keyed using
the name of the Envoy
[`cluster`](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/upstream/cluster_manager)
that is handling traffic for a given `Mapping`.  The name of a given
`cluster` is generated by Ambassador and, as such, is not necessarily
terribly readable.

You can set the `cluster_tag` attribute within a
[`Mapping`](../../topics/using/mappings) to specify a prefix for the
generated `cluster` name, to help manage metrics.

### Prometheus Operator with Standard YAML

In this section, we will deploy the Prometheus Operator using the
standard YAML files.  Alternatively, you can install it with
[Helm](#prometheus-operator-with-helm) if you prefer.

1. Deploy the Prometheus Operator

   To deploy the Prometheus Operator, you can clone the repository and
   follow the instructions in the README, or simply apply the
   published YAML with `kubectl`.

    ```
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/bundle.yaml
    ```

    **Note:** The YAML assumes Kubernetes 1.16 and above.  If running a
    lower version, you will need to run the following command to
    install the CRDs with the right API version:

    ```
    curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/bundle.yaml \
      | sed 's|apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1|apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1|' \
      | sed 's|jsonPath|JSONPath|' \
      | kubectl apply -f -
    ```

2. Deploy Prometheus by creating a `Prometheus` CRD

    First, create RBAC resources for your Prometheus instance

    ```
    kubectl apply -f https://www.getambassador.io/yaml/monitoring/prometheus-rbac.yaml
    ```

    Then, copy the YAML below, and save it in a file called
    `prometheus.yaml`

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: prometheus
    spec:
      type: ClusterIP
      ports:
      - name: web
        port: 9090
        protocol: TCP
        targetPort: 9090
      selector:
        prometheus: prometheus
    ---
    apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
    kind: Prometheus
    metadata:
      name: prometheus
    spec:
      ruleSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: prometheus-operator
      serviceAccountName: prometheus
      serviceMonitorSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: ambassador
      resources:
        requests:
          memory: 400Mi
    ```

    ```
    kubectl apply -f prometheus.yaml
    ```


3. Create a `ServiceMonitor`

   Finally, we need to tell Prometheus where to scrape metrics
   from.  The Prometheus Operator easily manages this using a
   `ServiceMonitor` CRD.  To tell Prometheus to scrape metrics from
   Ambassador Edge Stack's `/metrics` endpoint, copy the following
   YAML to a file called `ambassador-monitor.yaml`, and apply it with
   `kubectl`.

    If you are running an Ambassador version higher than 0.71.0 and
    want to scrape metrics directly from the `/metrics` endpoint of
    Ambassador Edge Stack running in the `ambassador` namespace:

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
    kind: ServiceMonitor
    metadata:
      name: ambassador-monitor
      labels:
        app: ambassador
    spec:
      namespaceSelector:
        matchNames:
        - ambassador
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          service: ambassador-admin
      endpoints:
      - port: ambassador-admin
    ```

Prometheus is now configured to gather metrics from Ambassador Edge
Stack.

### Prometheus Operator with Helm

In this section, we will deploy the Prometheus Operator using
Helm.  Alternatively, you can install it with [kubectl
YAML](#prometheus-operator-with-standard-yaml) if you prefer.

The default [Helm
Chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/prometheus-operator)
will install Prometheus and configure it to monitor your Kubernetes
cluster.

This section will focus on setting up Prometheus to scrape stats from
Ambassador Edge Stack.  Configuration of the Helm Chart and analysis of
stats from other cluster components is outside of the scope of this
documentation.

1. Install the Prometheus Operator from the helm chart

    ```	
    helm install -n prometheus stable/prometheus-operator
    ```

2. Create a `ServiceMonitor`

    The Prometheus Operator Helm chart creates a Prometheus instance
    that is looking for `ServiceMonitor`s with `label:
    release=prometheus`.

    If you are running an Ambassador version higher than 0.71.0 and
    want to scrape metrics directly from the `/metrics` endpoint of
    Ambassador Edge Stack running in the `default` namespace:

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
    kind: ServiceMonitor
    metadata:
      name: ambassador-monitor
      namespace: monitoring
      labels:
        release: prometheus
    spec:
      namespaceSelector:
        matchNames:
        - default
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          service: ambassador-admin
      endpoints:
      - port: ambassador-admin
    ```

    If you are scraping metrics from a `statsd-sink` deployment:

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
    kind: ServiceMonitor
    metadata:
      name: statsd-monitor
      namespace: monitoring
      labels:
        release: prometheus
    spec:
      namespaceSelector:
        matchNames:
        - default
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          service: statsd-sink
      endpoints:
      - port: prometheus-metrics
    ```

Prometheus is now configured to gather metrics from Ambassador Edge
Stack.

#### Prometheus Operator CRDs

The Prometheus Operator creates a series of Kubernetes Custom Resource
Definitions (CRDs) for managing Prometheus in Kubernetes.

| Custom Resource Definition | Description |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `AlertManager` | An AlertManager handles alerts sent by the Prometheus server. |
| `PrometheusRule` | Registers altering and reporting rules with Prometheus.  |
| `Prometheus` | Creates a Prometheus instance.  |
| `ServiceMonitor` | Tells Prometheus where to scrape metrics from.  |

CoreOS has published a full [API
reference](https://coreos.com/operators/prometheus/docs/latest/api.html)
to these different CRDs.

### Grafana

Grafana is an open-source graphing tool for plotting data
points.  Grafana allows you to create dynamic dashboards for monitoring
your ingress traffic stats collected from Prometheus.

We have published a [sample
dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/13758) you can use
for monitoring your ingress traffic.  Since the stats from the
`/metrics` and `/stats` endpoints are different, you will see a
section in the dashboard for each use case.

**Note:** If you deployed the Prometheus Operator via the Helm Chart,
a Grafana dashboard is created by default.  You can use this dashboard
or set `grafana.enabled: false` and follow the instructions below.

To deploy Grafana behind Ambassador Edge Stack: replace
`{{AMBASSADOR_IP}}` with the IP address or DNS name of your Ambassador
Edge Stack service, copy the YAML below, and apply it with `kubectl`:

**Note:** If you forgot how to get the value of your `AMBASSADOR_IP` or 
have not set-up DNS, you can get the IP by using the `kubectl get services -n ambassador` 
command, and select the External-IP of your Ambassador LoadBalancer service. 

```yaml
---
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: grafana
  labels:
    app: grafana
    component: core
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: grafana
      component: core
  template:
    metadata:
      creationTimestamp: null
      labels:
        app: grafana
        component: core
      annotations:
        sidecar.istio.io/inject: 'false'
    spec:
      volumes:
        - name: data
          emptyDir: {}
      containers:
        - name: grafana
          image: 'grafana/grafana:6.4.3'
          ports:
            - containerPort: 3000
              protocol: TCP
          env:
            - name: GF_SERVER_ROOT_URL
              value: {{ SCHEME }}://{{ AMBASSADOR_IP }}/grafana
            - name: GRAFANA_PORT
              value: '3000'
            - name: GF_AUTH_BASIC_ENABLED
              value: 'false'
            - name: GF_AUTH_ANONYMOUS_ENABLED
              value: 'true'
            - name: GF_AUTH_ANONYMOUS_ORG_ROLE
              value: Admin
            - name: GF_PATHS_DATA
              value: /data/grafana
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: 10m
          volumeMounts:
            - name: data
              mountPath: /data/grafana
          readinessProbe:
            httpGet:
              path: /api/health
              port: 3000
              scheme: HTTP
            timeoutSeconds: 1
            periodSeconds: 10
            successThreshold: 1
            failureThreshold: 3
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
      restartPolicy: Always
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: grafana
spec:
  ports:
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 3000
  selector:
    app: grafana
    component: core
```

Now, create a service and `Mapping` to expose Grafana behind
Ambassador Edge Stack:

**Note:** Don't forget to replace `{{GRAFANA_NAMESPACE}}` with the
namespace you deployed Grafana to. In our example we used the default namespace,
so for this example you would change it to `grafana.default` or just `grafana`.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind: Mapping
metadata:
  name: grafana
spec:
  prefix: /grafana/
  service: grafana.{{GRAFANA_NAMESPACE}}
```

Now, access Grafana by going to `{AMBASSADOR_IP}/grafana/` and logging
in with `username: admin` : `password: admin`.

Before you can import the Ambassador dashboard. You need to add a data source.
From the Grafana home page, select `Create your first data source`. Now,
select 'Prometheus'. In the URL section, type in `http://prometheus.default:9090`.
We deployed prometheus to the default namespace in our example, but if you 
deployed it to a different namespace, make sure to replace `default` with your
namespace. Press `Save & Test` to confirm that the data source works.

Import the [provided dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/13758)
by clicking the plus sign in the left side-bar, clicking `Import` in the top left, and entering the dashboard ID(13758).

From here, select the Prometheus data source we created from the `Prometheus` drop
down menu, and select import to finish adding the dashboard.

In the dashboard we just added, you should now be able to view graphs in the
`Ambassador Metrics Endpoint` tab.


## Viewing Stats/Metrics

Above, you have created an environment where Ambassador is handling
ingress traffic, Prometheus is scraping and collecting statistics from
Envoy, and Grafana is displaying these statistics in a dashboard.

You can easily view a sample of these statistics via the Grafana
dashboard at `{AMBASSADOR_IP}/grafana/` and logging in with the
credentials above.

The example dashboard you installed above displays 'top line'
statistics about the API response codes, number of connections,
connection length, and number of registered services.

To view the full set of stats available to Prometheus you can access
the Prometheus UI by running:

```
kubectl port-forward service/prometheus 9090
```

and going to `http://localhost:9090/` from a web browser

In the UI, click the dropdown and see all of the stats Prometheus is
able to scrape from Ambassador Edge Stack.

The Prometheus data model is, at its core, time-series
based.  Therefore, it makes it easy to represent rates, averages,
peaks, minimums, and histograms.  Review the [Prometheus
documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/) for a
full reference on how to work with this data model.

----

## Additional Install Options

### StatsD Exporter: Output Statistics to Ambassador Edge Stack

If running a pre-`0.71.0` version of Ambassador, you will need to
configure Envoy to output stats to a separate collector before being
scraped by Prometheus.  You will use the [Prometheus StatsD
Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter) to do this.

1. Deploy the StatsD Exporter in the `default` namespace

    ```
    kubectl apply -f https://www.getambassador.io/yaml/monitoring/statsd-sink.yaml
    ```

2. Configure Ambassador Edge Stack to output statistics to `statsd`

    In the Ambassador Edge Stack deployment, add the `STATSD_ENABLED`
    and `STATSD_HOST` environment variables to tell Ambassador Edge
    Stack where to output stats.

    ```yaml
    ...
            env:
            - name: AMBASSADOR_NAMESPACE
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.namespace
            - name: STATSD_ENABLED
              value: "true"
            - name: STATSD_HOST
              value: "statsd-sink.default.svc.cluster.local"
    ...
    ```

Ambassador Edge Stack is now configured to output statistics to the
Prometheus StatsD exporter.

#### ServiceMonitor

If you are scraping metrics from a `statsd-sink` deployment, you will
configure the `ServiceMonitor` to scrape from that deployment.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: statsd-monitor
  labels:
    app: ambassador
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
    - default
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      service: statsd-sink
  endpoints:
  - port: prometheus-metrics
```

#### Dashboard

Now that you have metrics scraping from StatsD You can use [this version of
the dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/4698) (ID: 4698) configured to work 
with metrics scraped from StatsD or the metrics Endpoint. You can configure it the
same way as the previous dashboard. Adding the prometheus data source is also required, 
so if you did not add that yet, make sure to configure it before adding the dashboard. 
